---
title: "Curriculum Vitae (CV) 💼"
date: 2025-05-10
categories: [CV]
tags: [cv]
pin: true
comments: false
---
Data Scientist with a strong foundation in Machine Learning, NLP, and Audio Intelligence. Experienced in conducting applied research and deploying AI solutions. Currently studying Msc AI at University of Amsterdam.     


## EDUCATION
<hr>

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between;">
  <strong>University of Amsterdam, Netherlands</strong>
  <span><strong>2024 - Present</strong></span>
</div>
*MSc Artificial Intelligence*  
Coursework: ML1, CV1, NLP1, DL1, FACT-AI, RL, IR1  

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between;">
  <strong>Manipal University Jaipur, India</strong>
  <span><strong>2018 - 2022</strong></span>
</div>

*Bachelor of Technology (Information Technology)*  
Coursework: Python, NLP, DSA, Database and Management, AI/ML, Data Mining, Modelling and Simulation  
CGPA: 8.7/10

## WORK EXPERIENCE AND INTERNSHIPS
<hr>

### **AppVirality Technologies Pvt. Ltd. (Outplay)** – *Hyderabad, India*  
<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between; margin: 0;"><strong>Associate Data Scientist</strong><span><strong>Jul 2022 – May 2024</strong></span></div>
<div style="text-align: justify">
An AI-powered multichannel sales engagement platform with a comprehensive sales stack that includes Sales Prospecting, Multi-Channel Sales Engagement, Inbound Conversion and Scheduling, and Conversational Intelligence.
</div>

- <div style="text-align: justify">Designed and Implemented a Conversation Intelligence pipeline to transcribe and analyze sales calls, seamlessly integrating AI capabilities such as Tone Detection, Speaker Identification, and AI-generated Summaries, all of which consistently delivered accuracies exceeding 95% for their respective modules.</div>
- <div style="text-align: justify">Deployed an In-House Automatic Speech Transcription (ASR) system for both real-time and offline transcriptions, with trained models achieving an error rate of 25% or lower.</div>
- <div style="text-align: justify">Conducted a comprehensive literature review and fine-tuned open-source TTS models for voice cloning, focusing on creating natural-sounding voices for audio personalization and AI-driven phone verification. Additionally, contributed to video personalization using OpenCV, enhancing customer engagement and communication.</div> 
- <div style="text-align: justify">Implemented automatic scaling-up and scaling-down of multiple deployed AWS EC2 instances, reducing system idle time and saving 90% AWS EC2 monthly costs.</div> 
- <div style="text-align: justify">Orchestrated comprehensive workshops on cutting-edge advancements in AI, equipping team members with practical knowledge of AI tools and technologies.</div>

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between; margin: 0;"><strong>Data Science Intern</strong><span><strong>Nov 2021 – Jun 2022</strong></span></div>
- <div style="text-align: justify">Implemented a Named Entity Recognition system to extract information from Out-of-Office emails, including Return Dates, Names, and Alternate Contact Details, achieving an accuracy of 90%.</div>  
- <div style="text-align: justify">Constructed a novel dataset and applied prompt engineering techniques to fine-tune OpenAI's GPT-3.5 to write emails, significantly reducing response time for sales email composition and thus enabling more responsive and productive sales outreach.</div>


### **Cornerstone Solutions Pvt. Ltd.** – *Bangalore, India*  
<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between; margin: 0;"><strong>Machine Learning Intern</strong><span><strong>Apr 2021 – Aug 2021</strong></span></div>
<div style="text-align: justify">
Cornerstone Solutions is a leading service provider for CRM and e-commerce in the Asia-Pacific region. They enable clients to utilize AI, robotics, and big data for scalable automation and infrastructure modernization.
</div>
- <div style="text-align: justify">Collaborated with the Robot Operating System (ROS) team to aid underwater bot navigation within the Gazebo simulation, finding valuable insights regarding the conditions of underwater tunnels.</div>
- <div style="text-align: justify">Automated underwater bot navigation by training reinforcement learning models that incorporated real-world bathymetry data and mitigated water disturbances using simulated sonar sensors.</div>


### **Intentico Inc.** – *Bangalore, India*  
<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between; margin: 0;"><strong>Machine Learning Intern</strong><span><strong>Jan 2021 – Mar 2021</strong></span></div>
<div style="text-align: justify">
Intentico is a Cognitive CX platform that uses AI Speechbots and Chatbots to automate customer interactions.
</div>
- <div style="text-align: justify">Optimized client Chatbots with AI using Long Short-Term Memory Networks (LSTM), streamlining client processes, and improving user engagement.</div>
- <div style="text-align: justify">Developed sentiment analysis models for Hindi and Arabic using CNN architectures and implemented automated test scripts with Selenium for performance assessment.</div>


### **Lynkit Pvt. Ltd.** – *Delhi, India* 
<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between; margin: 0;"><strong>Data Analyst Intern</strong><span><strong>Jul 2020 – Sep 2020</strong></span></div>
<div style="text-align: justify">
Lynkit is a supply chain automation company that works with firms like Delhivery, Flipkart, Aditya Birla Group, and 4000 others. They focus on projects in RFID, BLE, Blockchain, Warehouse, and Port Automation Systems.
</div>
- <div style="text-align: justify">Performed comprehensive data analysis on a vast dataset of real-time GPS device track data, comprising over 100,000 rows, and generated visualizations to extract insights.</div>
- <div style="text-align: justify">Developed Regression and Classification models to uncover tamper alerts in GPS-enabled RFID shipment container locks.</div>


## SKILLS AND COMPETENCIES
<hr>

**Programming Languages & Tools**: Python, JupyterLab, Git/GitHub, Kubeflow, Jira, Grafana, SonarQube, Datadog, Sentry  
**Databases**: PostgreSQL, MongoDB, MySQL  
**Frameworks**: PyTorch, TensorFlow, Kafka, FastAPI, Docker, Streamlit, Gradio  
**Software**: Confluence, Notion, Visual Studio, PyCharm


## ACHIEVEMENTS
<hr>

- Received "Top Performer of the Month" recognition twice at Outplay  
- Secured a Gold Medal and ranked #10 globally out of 3000 participants in the SIIM-ISIC Melanoma Classification Kaggle competition (2020)  
- Attained the title of "Kaggle Competition Master" with a top 1% global ranking (2021)  
- Ranked #10 in overall school academic performance for 2018


## Projects
<hr>

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between; margin: 0;"><strong>Call Assistant (Outplay)</strong> <span style="float: right;"><strong>Jun 2023 – May 2024</strong></span></div>
<div style="text-align: justify">
An AI-powered feature that uses WebSockets and Kafka technology to analyze real-time sales calls and meetings, extracting valuable insights from live transcriptions. This tool provides live alerts, action item identification, and question-answer recognition, enhancing communication efficiency and decision-making during the meetings.
</div>

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between; margin: 0;"><strong><a href="https://github.com/2t2c/Dynamic-Discord-Bot">Dynamic Discord Bot</a></strong><span style="float: right;"><strong>Jun 2021 – Jul 2021</strong></span></div>
<div style="text-align: justify">
An interactive bot, incorporating the Discord API, Selenium, and LLMs (Llama). This bot enriches the Discord server experience, offering features such as meme generation, real-time tweet retrieval, and chat interactions with Large Language Models (LLMs), resulting in increased user engagement and interactive entertainment within Discord communities.
</div>

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between; margin: 0;"><strong><a href="https://github.com/2t2c/Csgo-Object-Detection">CSGO Object Detection</a></strong><span style="float: right;"><strong>May 2021 – Jun 2021</strong></span></div>
<div style="text-align: justify">
The project was an experimental venture that aimed to automate player movements in the game, driven by hand gestures captured through webcam input. It also incorporated an object detection module (YOLO) trained locally to identify targets and perform relevant in-game actions.
</div>

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between; margin: 0;"><strong><a href="https://github.com/2t2c/Covid19-Medicare-App">Covid-19 Medicare App</a></strong> <span style="float: right;"><strong>Nov 2020 – Dec 2020</strong></span></div> 
<div style="text-align: justify">
A user-friendly Medicare App with features including Login/Register, seamless database connectivity, blog writing, chat bot functionality, real-time mask detection, and a social distancing monitor. I was responsible for the AI training of deep learning and computer vision models.
</div>

## Publications
<hr>

Yadav, A., **Thakur, U.**, Saxena, R. et al. [**AFD-Net: Apple Foliar Disease Multi Classification Using Deep Learning On Plant Pathology Dataset**](https://doi.org/10.1007/s11104-022-05407-3) *Plant Soil 477, 595–611 (2022)*
